.Dd July 3, 2026
.Dt TTYSVG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ttysvg
.Nd record terminal sessions as animated SVG
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl gz
.Op Fl no-clear
.Op Fl autostart
.Op Fl headless
.Op Fl no-loop
.Op Fl hold Ar duration
.Op Fl cast Ar path
.Op Fl query-terminal
.Op Fl version
.Op Fl o Ar path
.Op Fl size Ar COLSxROWS
.Op Fl fps Ar n
.Op Fl frame Ar duration
.Op Fl idle Ar duration
.Op Fl font-size Ar pixels
.Op Fl font-family Ar family
.Op Fl cell-width Ar pixels
.Op Fl cell-height Ar pixels
.Op Fl padding Ar pixels
.Op Fl theme Ar name
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar command Op Ar arg ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
records an interactive terminal session in a child PTY and converts the captured
terminal output to an animated SVG after the recorded command exits.
.Pp
With no command,
.Nm
starts the user's shell in the recorder PTY.
Type
.Ql exit
or otherwise end the shell to finish recording and write the SVG.
.Pp
If a command is supplied after
.Fl - ,
.Nm
records that command instead.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl o Ar path
Write the SVG to
.Ar path .
The path may be a file or a directory.
If it is a directory, the animation file is named with the form
.Pa ttyanim_YYYY.MM.DD-HH.MM.SS.svg .
The default is the current directory.
Pane-mode snapshots are written beside the animation with names of the form
.Pa ttypic_YYYY.MM.DD-HH.MM.SS.svg
and a plain-text companion
.Pa ttytxt-YYYY.MM.DD-HH.MM.SS.txt
suitable for pasting into Markdown code fences.
.It Fl gz
Write a gzip-compressed
.Pa .svgz
file instead of a plain
.Pa .svg .
This is also enabled automatically when the
.Fl o
path ends in
.Pa .svgz .
Useful for self-hosted pages and CI artifacts where smaller files matter and the
server can send the
.Ql Content-Encoding: gzip
header.
It is not suitable for GitHub READMEs, which serve
.Pa .svgz
without that header; commit the plain
.Pa .svg
there instead.
.It Fl size Ar COLSxROWS
Use a fixed PTY size, for example
.Ql 120x40 .
Either side may be omitted to auto-fit the current terminal in that dimension,
for example
.Ql 100x
(width only) or
.Ql x30
(height only).
The default is the current terminal size, or 80x24 when the size cannot be
detected.
.It Fl fps Ar n
Target frames per second.
Sets both the frame and idle capture intervals to
.Ar 1/n
seconds, providing a clearer way to choose the capture rate.
This cannot be combined with
.Fl frame
or
.Fl idle .
Recording only emits a frame when the screen changes, so the rate is a ceiling
during animation and adds nothing to idle stretches.
The default rate is 40fps.
.It Fl frame Ar duration
Minimum time between sampled SVG frames, as a Go duration such as
.Ql 25ms .
The default is 25ms (40fps).
.It Fl idle Ar duration
Capture a frame after this much output silence, as a Go duration.
A value of
.Ql 0
disables idle capture.
The default is 25ms.
.It Fl font-size Ar pixels
SVG output font size in pixels.
This does not change the live terminal font during recording.
The default is 14, or the size reported by the terminal when
.Fl query-terminal
is enabled.
.It Fl font-family Ar family
CSS font-family used by the SVG.
The default is a set of common monospace fallbacks, or the font reported by the
terminal when
.Fl query-terminal
is enabled.
.It Fl cell-width Ar pixels
SVG terminal cell width in pixels.
The default is derived from the font size.
.It Fl cell-height Ar pixels
SVG terminal cell height in pixels.
The default is derived from the font size.
.It Fl padding Ar pixels
SVG padding in pixels.
The default is 0.
.It Fl theme Ar name
SVG theme.
Supported values are
.Cm auto ,
.Cm dark ,
and
.Cm light .
The default is
.Cm auto .
.It Fl query-terminal
Query the current terminal for colors, theme, and font before recording, using
OSC 10/11, OSC 4, and OSC 50 escape queries.
This is off by default to minimize startup latency.
.It Fl no-clear
Do not clear the terminal before recording starts.
Clearing is on by default.
.It Fl autostart
In pane mode, begin recording immediately instead of waiting for the
.Ic Ctrl-\e
control.
.Ic Ctrl-\e
still pauses and resumes,
.Ic Ctrl-\e Ctrl-\e
saves static SVG and plain-text snapshots in any non-stopped pane state, and
.Ic Ctrl-\(rB
stops.
The keys are intercepted only while the pane is active; direct-mode recording
passes all input through to the child.
This has no effect in direct mode, which already records from the start.
.It Fl headless
Skip the interactive pane entirely and record the requested size directly, even
on an interactive terminal.
Intended for scripting and continuous integration.
.It Fl no-loop
Play the recording once and freeze on the final screen.
By default the SVG loops indefinitely, holding the final screen briefly before
restarting.
.It Fl hold Ar duration
How long the final screen is held before the loop repeats, as a Go duration.
The default is 2s.
.It Fl cast Ar path
Convert an existing asciinema recording (v2 or v3
.Pa .cast
file) to SVG instead of recording a live session.
The terminal size comes from the cast header unless
.Fl size
is given.
.It Fl version
Print the version and exit.
.It Fl q
Suppress progress and summary output.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa completions/ttysvg.bash
Bash completion script.
.It Pa completions/ttysvg.fish
Fish completion script.
.It Pa completions/_ttysvg
Zsh completion script.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ttysvg -o demo.svg
ttysvg -o demo.svg -- vim
ttysvg -size 100x30 -frame 80ms -theme dark -o demo.svg -- go test ./...
ttysvg -size x30 -no-clear -o demo.svg
ttysvg -headless -size 100x30 -q -o demo.svg -- make test
ttysvg -cast demo.cast -o demo.svg
ttysvg -o - -- make test > demo.svg
.Ed
.Pp
Project page:
.Lk https://github.com/shellcell/ttysvg
